[MUSIC]
In this video, we're gonna have our
character move to the right when we push
to the right and flip on its x-axis
when we're moving to the left.
So he looks like he's facing
in the right direction and
not just doing the moonwalk all
the time and walking backwards.
Okay, let's jump in and get started.
Now to flip our sprite, we need to do a
similar thing to that which we do with our
tiles, which is to change our scale
on the x-axis from minus one to
to look left to plus one to look right.
We need to do that in code.
So let's go over to the player script and
add a new method in here and
call it private void FlipSprite.
And just write out a couple of notes
in here in terms of what we need to do.
So if the player is moving horizontally,
we don't care so much about vertically.
It's just if they're moving horizontally,
then we want to flip them left or right.
Then, what do we do?
We need to reverse the current
scaling of the x-axis.
Okay, so
there's our mapping that out for that.
Now I wanna show you a couple of
concepts here that we use in this code,
some of them you'll have seen before.
Just two of them here.
Actually I'm saying some if there's 1,000.
There's just two.
So Mathf.Abs, as in absolute,
gives us the absolute value.
So returns the absolute value of f.
So if f is minus 37,
then it will return plus 37, or
the absolute value, just return 37.
All right, that's the first concept,
and the second concept is Mathf.Sign,
which returns a value of 1,
as in positive 1, if the f values of
the float value is positive or
0 and minus 1 if f is negative.
So if our float is positive,
it will return.
If our float is negative, it returns -1.
So this helps us when we need to give
a scale value of minus 1 to plus 1,
then we can be using this sign to
return either plus 1 or minus 1.
Okay, so
let's jump back to our code now and
have a look at what we need to do in here.
Now we know we can get the velocity
of the player by looking at
the myRigidBody.velocity.
And we can look at the .x
instead of the .y.
Over here, we can look at .x
in terms of the velocity.
And generally, because we're doing a flip,
we're toggling from one to
the other backwards and forwards,
it is a great spot for us to use a bool.
So what I'm gonna create here is a bool.
And we'll call this
playerHasHorizontalSpeed,
we'll call it HorizontalSpeed.
And we'll define this as to do it there,
it's gonna be the myRidgidBody.velocity.x,
but we want the absolute value of that.
So we use our Mathf.Abs, and then within
that we'll say, myRigidBody.velocity.x.
And if that is greater than 0,
or we don't use 0,
we use Mathf.Epsilon,
then our bool will be true.
So that is when the absolute value
of the movement is greater than 0 or
greater than Mathf.Epsilon,
our bool will return as true, excellent.
So then, next step is to create out if.
So if the player has horizontal speed.
So if this is true, if the bool is true,
that is we are moving,
we're greater than 0,
then what do we want to do?
Well, this is where I'm gonna give you a
little bit of a challenge to complete this
line of code.
We're gonna use a couple
of things in there.
I'll give you some details and
hints on that.
So flip the horizontal
scaling of your sprite so
that it changes direction when
a player changes direction.
There's just one line of
code to put in there.
And I'll give you a couple of hints,
if you would like them.
Hint number one is use
transform.localScale,
that's how we can access our scale
on our sprite, on our player.
And the second hint is to use
Mathf.Sign to feed in the plus 1 or
the minus 1 into that.
So have a go at that.
See how you go and see if you can flip
the sprite on the horizontal axis.
Okay, welcome back.
We're gonna start with
transform.localScale.
And what do we need this to be?
Well, we need to define a new Vector2, and
this is going to be Mathf.sign.
Cuz I wanna return the sign plus 1 or
minus 1 of what?
It's gonna be of
the myRigidBody.velocity.x.
So it's gonna be the sign
either moving to the right,
which is a positive velocity, or
moving to the left, negative velocity,
is gonna produce that sign, which
returns a value of plus 1 or minus 1.
And given that we're looking for
a Vector2 in here,
the Vector2 takes in the x and
then it takes in the y.
And the y here, we're just gonna say is 1.
So w ekeep the y as it is
in terms of the scaling.
We don't need to change
the scaling of the y-axis,
we don't need to flip it up and down.
So that entire method
is flipping the sprite.
If we're moving, then this ball is true,
and what happens if it's true?
Then, we say that our Vector2
becomes plus 1 or minus 1,
depending upon the sign of the movement
and the y stays as 1f, okay?
The last thing we need to do is
a place to call this method.
So we'll go into Update,
we'll say FlipSprite in here,
so we'll be running this on every frame.
Go back into our scene in here.
Hit Play, and
we'll see what behavior we get.
Left and right, left and right,
excellent, left and right.
Okay, so you now have your character
flipping from left to right.
Well done.
I'll see you in the next video.